docs: new release process documentation (#2866)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: contributing/publishing.md

# Goal

The goal of publishing is to take the extensions under `/packages`, bundle them as
.vsix files, and push them to the [Visual Studio Code
Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/vscode).

For more information about publishing take a look at:

- [Publishing VS Code Extensions][publish_vscode_ext]
- [Managing
  Extensions](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-gallery)

# Prerequisites

> 1. Publisher has a valid CircleCI token for the forcedotcom organization. More info on CircleCI's doc [Create a Personal API token](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/managing-api-tokens/#creating-a-personal-api-token).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Publisher has a valid CircleCI token for the forcedotcom organization. See [Create a Personal API token](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/managing-api-tokens/#creating-a-personal-api-token) in the CircleCI docs.
```

1. Publisher is a part of the GitHub team 'PDT'.

# Steps

## Creating a release branch

> The release branch is typically created from a scheduled job in CircleCi. This scheduled job cuts the release branch off of the `develop` branch on Mondays at 7 PM PST. Release branches are in the format `release/vxx.yy.zz`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release branch is typically created from a scheduled job in CircleCI. This scheduled job creates the release branch off of the `develop` branch on Mondays at 7 PM PST. Release branches are in the format `release/vxx.yy.zz`.
```

To create a release branch manually:

> <b>Note that this isn't typically required due to the scheduled job in CircleCi</b>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<b>Note that this isn't typically required due to the scheduled job in CircleCI</b>
```

1. Open the Command Palette (press Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows or Linux, or Cmd+Shift+P on macOS).
1. Search for `Tasks: Run Task`.
1. Select `Create Release Branch`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you add about going to the circleci workflow and approving the "hold" here as well.

> ## Generating the Change Log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generating the Changelog
```

> We generate the changelog based off of the new commits that are being staged for production. The change log generator helps us automate the process of generating the `CHANGELOG.md` with the correct format and commits being staged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We generate the changelog based off of the new commits that are being staged for production. The changelog generator helps us automate the process of generating the `CHANGELOG.md` with the correct format and commits being staged.
```

> We generate the changelog based off of the new commits that are being staged for production. The change log generator helps us automate the process of generating the `CHANGELOG.md` with the correct format and commits being staged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We generate the change log based off of the new commits that are being staged for production. The change log generator helps us automate the process of generating the `CHANGELOG.md` with the correct format and commits being staged.
```

Reviewer: I was going back and forth whether we should also use "changelog" as one word. But I decided if we use it generically, let's stick to two words (when not talking about the file)

To run the change log generator:

1. Run `git pull` to make sure your local changes are up to date.
1. Open the Command Palette (press Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows or Linux, or Cmd+Shift+P on macOS).
1. Search for `Tasks: Run Task`.

> 1. Select `Create Change Log`.

Reviewer 2: May be explain the next steps in change log as well. I wasn't sure if I can let it pick the latest version or I'll have to provide the version manually.

## Merging the Release Branch into Main

> After the change log has been approved and merged into your release branch, it's time to prepare main with the new changes for the publish. We currently utilize a CircleCi workflow that will rebase main off of the release branch. We are specifically using the rebase strategy because we want all of the commits from our release branch to be applied ontop of the commits in main.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the change log has been approved and merged into your release branch, it's time to prepare main with the new changes for the publish. We currently use a CircleCI workflow that rebases `main` off of the release branch. We are specifically using the rebase strategy because we want all the commits from our release branch to be applied on top of the commits in `main`.
```

To run the merge process:

1. Open the Command Palette (press Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows or Linux, or Cmd+Shift+P on macOS).
1. Search for `Tasks: Run Task`.
1. Select `Launch Pre-Publish Steps`.
1. Approve the workflow in CircleCi:
   1. Navigate to the `#pdt_releases` channel in Slack.
   1. There should soon be a `Pending Approval for Publish` option. Click the `Visit Workflow` button to navigate to CircleCi.
   1. Click the selection for `hold`.
   1. You should now see the following ![Approval View](./images/contributing-approval-button.png). Click the `Approve` button.

## Publishing Main

After the pre-publish steps have run and main has been rebased off of the release branch, it's now time to publish main.

1. Open the Command Palette (press Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows or Linux, or Cmd+Shift+P on macOS).
1. Search for `Tasks: Run Task`.
1. Select `Publish Extensions`.

> 1. Approve the workflow in CircleCi:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Approve the workflow in CircleCI:
```

   1. Navigate to the `#pdt_releases` channel in Slack.

>    1. There should soon be a `Pending Approval for Publish` option. Click the `Visit Workflow` button to navigate to CircleCi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Soon you'll see a `Pending Approval for Publish` option. Click the `Visit Workflow` button to navigate to CircleCi.
```

   1. Click the selection for `hold`.

>    1. You should now see the following ![Approval View](./images/contributing-approval-button.png). Click the `Approve` button.

Reviewer: Generally, we try to avoid "you should this or should see this" - Can we say something like: In the Approval View, click the Approve button. (image follows) Something like that.

> # Manual Publish

Author: I'd like to get Luis' feedback on this piece. It has been a long time since we've had to do the process manually, so I'm not sure how much of this applies anymore.

Reviewer 3: It's a good option to keep it available in the situation ex. CircleCI is down

Reviewer 4: The steps are still valid but we need to remove the old AWS steps, here's a PR for it https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode/pull/2893

> In the event that CircleCi is not a viable option for publishing, please see the following...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the event that CircleCI is not a viable option for publishing, please see the following...
```

> In the event that CircleCi is not a viable option for publishing, please see the following...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the event that CircleCI is not a viable option for publishing, see the following...
```
